Updates Get started page (#183)
elastic/docs-content: serverless/pages/get-started.asciidoc

preview:[]

> Follow along to set up your {es} project and get started with some sample documents.
> In this tutorial, you will learn how to:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
On this page, you will learn how to:
```

> - <<elasticsearch-get-started-create-project,Create a project>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- <<elasticsearch-get-started-create-project,Create a {es-serverless} project>>.
```

- Get started with {es}:
  * <<elasticsearch-follow-guided-index-flow,Option 1: Guided index flow>>: 
    Follow the step-by-step tutorial provided in the UI to create an index and ingest data.

  * <<elasticsearch-follow-in-product-getting-started,Option 2: In-product Getting Started guide>>: 
    Use the Getting Started page's instructions to ingest data and perform your first search.

  * <<elasticsearch-explore-on-your-own,Option 3: Explore on your own>>: 

>     If you're already familiar with Elasticsearch, retrieve your connection details, select an ingest method that suits your needs, and start searching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you're already familiar with {es}, retrieve your connection details, select an ingest method that suits your needs, and start searching.
```

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-get-started-create-project]]
== Create project

Use your {ecloud} account to create a fully-managed {es} project:

. Navigate to {ess-console}[cloud.elastic.co] and create a new account or log in to your existing account.
. Within **Serverless Projects**, choose **Create project**.
. Choose the {es} project type.
. Select a **configuration** for your project, based on your use case.
+
** **General purpose**: For general search use cases across various data types.
** **Optimized for Vectors**: For search use cases using vectors and near real-time retrieval.
. Provide a name for the project and optionally edit the project settings, such as the cloud platform <<regions,region>>.
Select **Create project** to continue.
. Once the project is ready, select **Continue**.

[TIP]
====

> Learn more about minimum VCUs and their costs in <<elasticsearch-billing,Elasticsearch billing dimensions>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Learn how billing works for your project in <<elasticsearch-billing,Elasticsearch billing dimensions>>.
```

====

Now your project is ready to start creating indices, adding data, and performing searches. You can choose one of the following options to proceed.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-follow-guided-index-flow]]
== Option 1: Follow the guided index flow

Once your project is set up, you'll be directed to a page where you can create your first index. 
An index is where documents are stored and organized, making it possible to search and retrieve data.

. Enter a name for your index.
. Click *Create my index*. You can also create the index by clicking on *Code* to view and run code through the command line.
+
image::images/get-started-create-an-index.png[Create an index.]

. You’ll be directed to the *Index Management* page. Here, copy and save the following:
- Elasticsearch URL
- API key

[NOTE]
====
You won’t be able to view this API key again. If needed, refer to <<elasticsearch-get-started-create-api-key,Create a new API key>> to generate a new one.
====

The UI provides ready-to-use code examples for ingesting data via the REST API. 
Choose your preferred tool for making these requests:

> * Elastic Console in your project's UI

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* <<devtools-run-api-requests-in-the-console, Console >> in your project's UI
```

* Python 
* JavaScript 
* cURL

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-follow-in-product-getting-started]]

> == Option 2: Follow the in-product Getting Started guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Option 2: Follow the Getting Started guide
```

heading is bit long in TOC

To get started using the in-product tutorial, navigate to the *Getting Started* page and follow the on-screen steps.

image::images/getting-started-page.png[Getting Started page.]

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-explore-on-your-own]]
== Option 3: Explore on your own

If you're already familiar with Elasticsearch, you can jump right into setting up a connection and ingesting data as per your needs.

. Retrieve your <<elasticsearch-connecting-to-es-serverless-endpoint,connection details>>.
. Ingest your data. Elasticsearch provides several methods for ingesting data:
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-api,{es} API>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-integrations-connector-client,Connector clients>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-file-upload,File Uploader>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-beats,{beats}>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-logstash,{ls}>>
* https://github.com/elastic/crawler[Elastic Open Web Crawler]

For more information on data ingestion and synchronization, 
see <<elasticsearch-ingest-your-data>>. 

Once your data is ingested, you can experiment with <<elasticsearch-playground,Playground>> to test queries and explore features.

> To learn about the search API and query DSL, refer to <<elasticsearch-http-apis>>.

Reviewer: I think we should just remove this section altogether now. :)

preview:[]

Follow along to set up your {es} project and get started with some sample documents.

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-get-started-create-project]]

> == Create project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
== Create a project
```

[h/t](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/193/files#r1846784396) @shainaraskas

== Option 1 - Follow the guided index flow

Once your project is set up, you'll be directed to a page where you can create your first index. 
An index is where documents are stored and organized, making it possible to search and retrieve data.

. Enter a name for your index.
. Click *Create my index*. You can also create the index by clicking on *Code* to view and run code through the command line.
+
image::images/get-started-create-an-index.png[Create an index.]

. You’ll be directed to the *Index Management* page. Here, copy and save the following:
- Elasticsearch URL
- API key

[NOTE]
====
You won’t be able to view this API key again. If needed, refer to <<elasticsearch-get-started-create-api-key,Create a new API key>> to generate a new one.
====

The UI provides ready-to-use code examples for ingesting data via the REST API. 
Choose your preferred tool for making these requests:

* Elastic Console in your project's UI
* Python 
* JavaScript 
* cURL

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-follow-in-product-getting-started]]
== Option 2 - Follow the in-product Getting Started guide

Navigate to the *Getting Started* page and follow the steps provided on the UI.

> image::images/getting-started-page.png[Getting Started page.]

Author: Thank you for pointing this out!
It could have been a great opportunity to become famous, though :)

* Python 
* JavaScript 
* cURL

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-follow-in-product-getting-started]]
== Option 2: Follow the Getting Started guide

To get started using the in-product tutorial, navigate to the *Getting Started* page and follow the on-screen steps.

image::images/getting-started-page.png[Getting Started page.]

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-explore-on-your-own]]
== Option 3: Explore on your own

If you're already familiar with Elasticsearch, you can jump right into setting up a connection and ingesting data as per your needs.

. Retrieve your <<elasticsearch-connecting-to-es-serverless-endpoint,connection details>>.
. Ingest your data. Elasticsearch provides several methods for ingesting data:
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-api,{es} API>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-integrations-connector-client,Connector clients>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-file-upload,File Uploader>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-beats,{beats}>>
* <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-through-logstash,{ls}>>
* https://github.com/elastic/crawler[Elastic Open Web Crawler]

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-next-steps]]
== Next steps

> Once you've added data to your {es-serverless} project, you can use {kibana-ref}/playground.html[Playground] to test and tweak {es} queries and chat with your data, using GenAI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Once you've added data to your {es-serverless} project, you can use {kibana-ref}/playground.html[Playground] to test and tweak {es} queries and chat with your data, using GenAI.
* You can also try our hands-on {ref}/quickstart.html#quickstart-list[quick start tutorials] in the core {es} documentation.
```

Select **Create project** to continue.
. Once the project is ready, select **Continue**.

include::../partials/minimum-vcus-detail.asciidoc[]

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-get-started-create-index]]
== Create an index

Once your project is set up, you'll be directed to a page where you can create your first index. 
An index is where documents are stored and organized, making it possible to search and retrieve data.

. Enter a name for your index.
. Click *Create my index*. You can also create the index by clicking on *Code* to view and run code examples through the command line.
+
image::images/get-started-create-an-index.png[Create an index.]

. You’ll be directed to the *Index Management* page. Here, copy and save the following:
- Elasticsearch URL
- API key

[NOTE]
====
You won’t be able to view this API key again. If needed, refer to <<elasticsearch-create-new-api-key,Create a new API key>> to generate a new one.
====

[discrete]
[[elasticsearch-get-started-ingest-data]]
== Ingest data

> You can now ingest data in several ways: using Python, cURL, JavaScript, or Run in Console directly in Elasticsearch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The UI provides ready-to-use code examples for ingesting data via the REST API. Choose your preferred tool for making these requests:
* Console 
* Python 
* JavaScript 
* cURL
```

If you'd prefer to upload a file using the UI, refer to <<elasticsearch-ingest-data-file-upload>>.

> In this section, we walk you through the ingest process using the Console.

Reviewer: I'm not sure we need to recreate the in-product experience in the docs? 🤔

. Click *Run in Console*.
. Run the first API call to create the index mapping.
+

> [source,json]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,console]
```

Now that we're back in asciidoc we should use Console by default
